Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
God. come and help me God!
God. come and help my son.
We won't accept this.
we won't accept this!
My boy. remember what we discussed.
-Definitely.
-Do you hear me?
Come and eat this.
Why should I?
All I want is my freedom.
I don't want to eat!
Then. I'll give you your freedom.
I can't do that.
I don't intend to keep that promise.
Where did you learn this?
Don't you know I'm trying to save you?
I can't leave him.
I'll tell you why.
his child is inside my womb.
Girl. What have you done?
All I want is love.
The truth is that it's not a crime.
It is not a curse.
The child is not a curse.
Very soon.
you will become a grandfather.
I disagree!
You won't have it! You won't!
You will not have the child.
Very early tomorrow.
I will send you to Warri.
who will abort
this abomination in your womb.
Please. my father.
-You are mad.
-Please. Father.
Please. Father.
Please!
You will never. ever… You will never
-come back to this town.
-Please. Father.
-Seriously.
-My father.
-My father!
-Leave me!
My father!
-Son…
-Yes. Father.
Don't let her out.
Do you understand?!
My brother… this journey.
do you really want to to embark on it?
Yes I want to embark on it.
On this journey. things might go bad!
The ocean will be rough!
I have decided! I will go.
Taking care of this family
is my responsibility.
that is why I'm asking you.
Nembe people have started again.
Mother… why do you worry so much?
Isn't it my job to worry?
Calm down. All will be fine.
Olotu… do as you have promised!
When we get to the white man's land.
I will call you.
come and hug me.
Okay? You must follow his footsteps.
Do you hear what I'm saying?
I've heard you.
Mama Dolor. that roasted plantain
you gave me yesterday was not nice.
I didn't enjoy it.
Even the money you paid wasn't enough.
Now that you've come to buy again.
I'll treat you well.
I will give you good ones.
Because of these protests going on.
that's why things are like this.
-Don't be angry.
-No worries.
A block is a block!
Okay.
Where is your father?
What is the matter?
My father held me hostage.
and he is planning to send me to Warri.
Abbey. come out! Come out! I'm shocked.
-Abbey. come out.
-What happened?
Get away from there.
where is your eldest son?
He wants to abort the baby in my womb.
Abbey please. I don't want to abort it!
Abbey. please!
I'm coming.
-Open this gate.
-Abbey is not around.
-Girl. get out of here!
-You are insane.
-Be careful.
-Yes. Abbey.
Come let us go.
-Yes. let's go…
-I agree.
Be fast.
-Yes. of course.
-Man…
This thing happening is disturbing
and it's is affecting us.
-Abbey.
-Enter inside.
Move! Move!
Get out of there! Move!
Stop panicking. it will be alright.
Get away from there!
But these boys you are talking about…
They are just thugs being used.
If you want to end the uprising today.
-Open this door!
-Where is your son?!
What did we do?
-Good!
-What have we done?
What have we done?
Open this door.
Where is Abbey?
-Where did he go?
-My brother.
-Where is he?
-What did he do?
-Clear! Madam…
-He has a gun.
It's not over.
-Ebiye.
-It's not over!
-Abbey…
-Why do they want to arrest us?
Some youth killed a soldier.
You are crazy. Don't you have sense?
We are fighting for general welfare
and you're there misbehaving.
Get out of my sight!
-Are you… are you insane?
-Why are you misbehaving?!
-Listen. listen! Be silent.
-My friend. I will hit you.
-Do you understand?
-Keep moving.
-I will beat you more!
-Keep quiet
-Please. calm down.
-Just calm down.
Degbe. calm down!
My friend. behave yourself.
We are helping you people
and you're misbehaving.
Now you do not appreciate us.
This Axis Oil company
came to the community.
messed up the environment.
polluted the land. poisoned our waters…
And you expect us
not to attack these evil men?
And you are not supporting us.
No problem!
Taking a stand all this time.
what have we gained?
Guy.
let me enlighten you. Do you understand?
If anybody should die.
-those on earth will carry on.
-Of course.
-Let's keep moving.
-I know what I stand for.
What do you stand for?
Let's go. let's go. I'm upset.
You over there!
You two. I've never seen you
in this community before.
Who are you?
We're not from around here.
-Tekena!
-We're coming from Imiringi.
So what brings you to Nembe?
My brother. we're just passing by.
We don't want to be part of your struggle.
Why not?
Guy. don't waste time
discussing with these jokers.
These guys are weak.
In case you're not aware.
this is the only land that we have.
Idiot. Your father! Bastard!
Your father's ass!
How's it going? Have you seen my brother?
Something has affected him.
What's that on you?
Are you going to kill it?
-Kill it! Kill it!
-Wait. stop. stop!
That is Adumu.
It won't bite you unless
it perceives you want to attack it.
My grandma tells me that Adumu…
Adumu is a water spirit.
She says it's a water spirit
but poses as a python.
She told me that we come from water
and we will return to water when we die.
-Man!
-Abbey.
-Where did you go?
-Brave man!
This is a good food.
-Lady. leave here.
-You want to eat it?
-Let's do it!
-Delicious meal.
-Brave man.
-Yeah.
My man… turn that one over.
Look at this one here.
The military men are still there.
What is really happening?
What are we going to do?
Take this to Abbey
and give him a message for me.
There is a trap set for him.
If Abbey doesn't leave. he'd fall in it.
Give him this money.
Tell him to leave this town.
Go to the boatyard.
-pass through the back.
-I'll take the things to them.
I brought money and the bag.
Abbey. please.
Don't come back home
or soldiers will arrest you.
When it is quiet. we move.
Let me call him.
Brother. what about the others?
What do we care about them?
As we planned. let me call Mr. P.
My phone.
I can't find it.
What are we going to do?
I had it but it's lost.
Be strong.
What was the message
your sister brought to you?
Your father reported me to the police that
I'm the head of the three people
who started the protest.
Now the police is looking for me.
I can't go back home again.
The soldiers are searching
everywhere for us.
How are you involved in this?
That is not important.
Just know that.
all of us are in the same boat.
we have to keep a low profile for now.
We have to go either Lagos or Ghana…
How will we find our way to Ghana now?
How will we do it?
You killed a soldier!
Or have you forgotten
what happened at Odi massacre?
Please…
does anyone know a Mr. Perekemi?
He's from this village.
-Who would know him?
-I don't know him.
Is he a sailor?
-Mr. P?
-Yes.
Mr. P. yes.
I know Mr. P.
What do you want him for?
I know him.
Man. you better tell me
why you're looking for Mr. P.
So that I can tell you
how to find him. you understand?
Mr. P promised…
to leave this village and go abroad.
Man. can you give us more details?
Tell me. can you give us more details?
Do you have any money?
I… I have a little money here.
for my girlfriend and I.
For you and your girlfriend. right?
So the rest of us should be killed?
Selfish bastard!
That's why you're a half-breed.
Boma. make a call.
Call your house
to pack some things so we can leave.
You hear?
Hope you understand.
I have checked them out.
You know I don't like to work
This is the money. right?
My friend. are you're sure
the money is complete?
-Everything is complete. Mr. P.
-You all follow me.
You all keep coming.
Walk carefully.
Move gently.
Move quietly so that
people above don't hear you.
You all should hurry down.
Come on. walk quickly. take giant strides.
Jesus. enter! Stop asking me
very stupid… go on. enter!
Go inside. come on!
You're acting timid.
Mr. P. please tell us
what type of place is this.
This is not what we paid for.
Hurry up! Catch your brother's bag.
What kind of people are these?!
Catch your bottle. Take. take!
Go on inside! You're just looking around.
Aren't you a man?
Look here… this is a five star lodge.
Mr. P. are you sure there's no other place
where we can stay?
Is something wrong with you?
This is… either you take
this space or you leave my boat.
-Mr. P.
-Yes?
-There is no toilet in here.
-Yes. there is no toilet.
That bucket by the side is your toilet.
Make good use of it.
Come on. Mr. P.
-Mr. P.
-What is it?
-Okay. Mr. P…
-Okay. as for food.
Look. let me tell you this…
I made provision for only one mouth.
I will… I will feed you all as well.
But it is only one meal a day.
So please choose whether it's…
a day or night-time meal.
Mr. P. we'll eat at night.
You all must never
come upstairs out of this place.
Do you all understand?
-Yeah. yeah.
-We will manage this place.
Because I won't be lenient with anybody.
I make money from this. Thank you.
Everybody. come here. come here!
-My brother.
-My friend.
We've started sailing.
Awesome.
Since we began our journey till now.
if we were bad people
we would have been arrested.
We are not bad people.
God has made it possible.
It is the creator
that brought us this far.
Let's join what's left
of our food together.
It will sustain us
because the journey is far.
Who made you the leader over us?
I'm the leader.
Brother. I'm not the leader.
I just want to be alive. that's all.
I will rather starve to death
than eat with a half-breed!
-Calm down. Are you kidding me?!
-What's all this?
Men…
Shh.
There will be no fight on this trip.
I'm not taking sides.
If you people refuse to stop…
When we get to the white man's land…
if you insist on fighting.
you can continue.
I hope you heard me.
-Do you hear me?
-I've heard you.
Do you hear me?
Man. what's that smell?
It's that soil bucket.
This boat is not moving!
Please come on board the ship.
Friends.
From what I hear.
Brazil is where
the most beautiful girls in the world are.
Put on this bracelet
so the beautiful girls in Brazil…
will know you are mine.
I promise.
Degbe! What is the matter?
Man. calm down.
What's going on?
If not for what he said.
I would have gone out.
What exactly is going on?!
So how do you want us to work this?
What do you want us to do?
My man. I think we should leave.
Let's find out what's going on.
Mr. P said we shouldn't leave this place.
The same Mr. P
who left us here to die. right?
Man. don't give me that.
-Don't give me that.
-Those are the instructions he gave.
If this ship doesn't sail now.
we will run out of food.
Even this half-breed here agrees with me.
So the issue here now is.
who will go out
and who will remain inside here?
Let's vote.
No. My brother can't go out there.
What's this guy saying?
-We've already discussed this.
-Wait. wait. I'll--
I'm not a child that you can stop.
-Teke. what are you doing?
-Don't stop me!
You are my elder brother. not my father.
You really want to go out?
Yes but I'll come back.
Tekena! I beg you to listen.
The boat.
It seems like
the ship has started sailing.
It snows and rains.
and whoever's not in Africa is…
-a dumbass!
-A dumbass!
Talking about dumbasses…
Today the commander
talked to me about pride.
I told him to shove it
-up his ass!
-Right up his ass!
Oyin. what's up?
Tell us your stories.
This girl wants to tell us
another depressing story.
My grandmother told me
of our people that has been forgotten…
But it is our story.
She said that a long time ago
those white men used to take our people
to their land and sell them.
She said…
they would rather die in the ocean.
My grandma said that if you put your ear…
then you'll hear them singing.
The suffering
Of a child of destiny
A mighty ocean covers my heart
When the time comes. grace will arrive
A great ocean
Covers my heart
When it's time. grace will arrive
Oyin. my child.
You understand what I'm telling you.
My husband's people believe
that if one kills a python…
if one kills a python and eats it.
that is a bad omen.
That the community
will gather and place a curse
upon the family
of the one who ate the python.
It's such a big deal.
Why are you not responding?
I'm wondering if you're hearing me.
There's a man I'm in love with.
But Daddy won't allow us to date.
-You said what?!
-He won't allow us to be together.
Oyin… did you say "man"?
Man?! Don't let your father hear it!
Don't even go there!
-Why?
-You ask why?
Water gods. please.
-When you parents got married…
-Give me a child.
-Your mom went…
-Water gods. please.
They didn't have a child
but your mom wanted a child.
They searched and searched for a long time
to no avail.
-Your mom went to the river.
-Gods of the water…
-…give me a child.
-and begged the river goddess
-for a child.
-Gods of the water.
-please give me a child.
-The river goddess gave her a child.
-Gods of the water. thanks.
-And who is that child? Look at her!
-It's you.
-You have done well.
As you have given the child
I asked of you. I thank you!
That's why I said you should never mention
anything about a man because
it's a matter of life and death.
Do you hear me? Please.
There's a lot at stake. A lot!
Don't go there
because you will not get married.
You will be successful. in your studies.
you can see how successful you are.
Everything you do is successful.
Any business you wish
to do will be successful.
But husband or man.
I don't ever want to hear it from you.
You are still awake?
I can't sleep.
Me neither.
Believe it or not…
I've never been away from home this long.
Me too.
I just pray
that this journey is worth it all.
Tell me about your fiancé?
Why don't the other men like him?
his mother still had no child.
She got an Igbo girl
to come marry her husband.
The girl had a child.
But the man's family
didn't want the child.
Because the child was not of their blood.
They said the child was… omeni.
Because he's the child
from an unwanted woman.
Child of a property-wife.
Take it. Drink.
What is happening to you?
What's wrong?
We just wanted to scare them.
We didn't plan to kill anybody.
It's not your fault.
You didn't mean it.
Why am I even…
Why am I even telling you this story?
When we don't love ourselves?
Why are you not free with me?
Making you refuse to tell me your stories.
Because you think
I'm the child of an inferior?
In here. there is no superior human.
We're all equals.
The most important thing now is…
getting to the outside world.
I feel like drinking alcohol.
Man. my tummy
is seriously dealing with me.
What's really going on?
My stomach is also rumbling.
Man… I want to go search for food.
Nobody should try
to persuade me otherwise.
-Man. it's risky.
-I need to look for food now.
Man…
Boma. Degbe wants to go look for food.
Degbe. Where are you going?
Take it easy.
Mr. P said we shouldn't leave this place.
Please forget about that.
Just calm down.
Don't go out!
He is not even afraid.
-Man.
-Boss.
Be very alert.
I understand. Relax.
I know what's at stake.
You understand? I know what is at stake.
Good luck.
Thank you. my brother.
Thank you.
She has a fever.
Man. my friend isn't back here.
I'll be back.
Where are you going?
Where are you going? Hey. man.
I have to find her some medicine.
Abbey… I'm not sure this is a smart move.
Listen. man…
I will never forgive myself.
Be strong.
Please keep an eye on her while I'm away.
Of course.
I'll look for Degbe and bring him back.
We paid Mr. P.
just relax.
There's no problem.
Everything is cool.
There's lot of food here. you understand?
My friend. you understand?
There's no problem. Just relax.
Just relax.
There's no problem.
My man. sit down. You all should sit.
Help yourselves.
Get something to eat.
Man. relax.
Olotu. tell him what happened.
Mr. P.
Hello there. Mr. P. are you okay?
Man! God forbid!
What kind of nonsense is that?
Sir. there's something
I want--
Why did this man just hang up like that?
Man!
-What do you mean. spies?
-We are not spies.
Men. or are you guys spies?
Because the way
the two of you just came out
from nowhere is suspicious.
I beg you in God's name!
What nonsense talk is that?!
What are you saying?!
-This man is crazy.
-Aren't we all here together?
-What?!
-What sort of nonsense is this?
-Man--
-Stop it! Don't yell at me.
-What's wrong with you?
-This guy is bad. Come on!
-I'm talking to you and you're yelling.
Don't yell. You understand?
-How would you suspect us?
-Calm down. we have to relax.
-What's wrong with this guy?!
-Why are you acting this way?
-Do you understand?
-Don't yell at--
My god!
How much to make it all disappear?
Go! Go!
Go!
My brother.
White man… Let us go.
He's bluffing.
He won't hurt you. believe me.
Don't let them go!
I promise you.
Don't close your eyes! Anya. please!
Look at me! Don't close your eyes!
I'm begging you. don't!
Don't close them!
So. where are you holding those bastards?
In the laundry room.
Good.
I want to be sure
that you find other rats.
Understood?
-Copy that.
Feed those in the laundry room.
I'll need them tonight.
It's horrible!
So? Have you found the rat?
No. Aleksei is still seeking.
Are we sure that they are spies?
-Are you questioning my orders?
-No.
We'll find him.
Throw him the knife.
Kill them both. and throw them overboard.
Tekena. what do you think you're doing?
I want to survive.
-Fight! Fight!
-Tekena!
You're seen as the good child
while I'm the bad child.
You get us in trouble
and I take the blame.
Is that what you want to hear?
But we were only children.
You want me to say I'm sorry?
Okay. I'm sorry.
Stop this madness!
Go ahead and do it…
Kill me.
Go ahead and do it. Why can't you kill me?
It's because you know
that I'm your blood brother.
Fight as we may…
I'm still your brother. no matter what.
I'm still your brother…
Until the very end.
What are we going to do?
I will do something soon.
Take good care of yourself.
My brother!
Promise me you will look after mother.
Why did you do it?
Because you are my brother.
Farewell. comrade.
Igor. they've killed Aleksei.
Those bitches killed him!
Abbey… don't come out. they will kill you.
Switch to him.
Stop.
You're done!
Die. you bastard! Son of a bitch!
You'll see your brother today!
For all that you've done to us.--
Boma. what did they do to you?
Are you betrothed to a water spirit?
Yes.
If I get married. I will die.
If I have a child. I will die.
But I know what I want.
What about the prophecy?
I thought you don't believe
in spirits and prophecies.
But that is what you believe.
And that is enough to make them real.
I'm not part of them. Abbey.
I want to live life on my own terms.
-What if you die?
-I will not die.
The suffering
-Of a child of destiny
-What is it that you're singing?
When it's time. grace will arrive.
A great ocean
-Is covering my heart
-You can keep on praying
-while I'm slicing your skin.
-Child of destiny.
Boma. what have they done to you?
is for the love of my life…
Mother.
Mom.
how did my son die?
I respect your son.
He was a brave man.
What was Degbe doing
with somebody like you?
Why are you worried? We are friends.
During our journey.
this is what came out of it.
My son is dead!
My son cannot have
a guy like you as a friend.
There is money inside.
What I'm giving cannot bring him back.
But it will make you strong.
There's money inside.
What did he bring?
What did he bring? Degbe…
Don't be angry.
I have come to give you some bad news.
You came on account of my son.
To tell me he's dead.
Now Olotu has died.
Ma… It's not only Olotu that died.
Tekena is also dead.
My friend… I'm alive.
Tell me…
When did you come back?
Not long ago.
I thought I was the only survivor.
I thought the same thing.
My friend.
What exactly happened?
-Akparaka.
-Great man.
What is happening?
-Akparaka.
-Great man.
What is happening?
Be patient.
they will tell you when they get here.
Are you part of what they want to tell me?
When they get here they'll tell you.
-Be patient.
-Who is that coming?
-Let us be careful when we get here.
-Be calm.
When they arrive. I will be calm.
Let them move quickly and come. please.
I have other things to do.
Whether good or bad news.
they will say it.
Why are you just sitting there?
-Okay. welcome.
-Thanks
-You are welcome.
-Thanks.
We came on account of your daughter.
Welcome.
Akparaka. why have you not given
your visitors a seat?
Don't you see us standing?
Great man… please listen to them.
-Abbey.
-Calm down.
-Please be calm.
-Abbey!
-Great man.
-Where is my daughter?
-Please be calm.
-What are you doing here?
-Please. sir.
Be calm. be calm.
-What has happened has happened.
-Abbey. you!
Calm down. please.
-Please. please calm down.
-No… You!
-Abbey!
-Calm down first. Please. sir.
-I will deal with you.
-Great man.
-Great man. stop and listen.
-Please. sir.
-Calm down. please.
-Please. you are a great man.
-Please sir.
-Please. calm down.
-Please hold yourself together.
-At this point.
-Hold yourself together.
-He came to say something.
-Please listen to him.
Where did you send her to?
Oyinbrakemi… is dead.
-Hey!
-Please be strong.
-What are you telling me?
-This was what we came to tell you.
Please we are pleading for him.
I hope you have listened to us.
That is what has happened.
Please forgive him.
Because of us. please be calm.
-Come back from dead. please.
-We commiserate.
-Be strong.
-Hold yourself together please.
-Please be calm and listen to us.
-Please forgive him.
We hope you have accepted our plea.
this was the message
we wanted to relay to you.
That's why we wanted you to sit down.
-We hope you understand.
-My friend.
That is why I was in a hurry to come.
Listen to my advice.
Abbey… Listen to my advice.
What happened is not over. know this.
Go and stay in Lagos as a free man.
I will come and visit you.
Go safe!
Subtitle translation by:
Onyaye Cristebi Ipalimote